Note: flexdll is only available for Windows platforms!

Under Windows, DLL (Dynamically-Linked Libraries) are generally used
to improve code modularity and sharing. A DLL can be loaded
automatically when the program is loaded (if it requires the DLL). The
program can also explicitly request Windows to load a DLL at any
moment during runtime, using the LoadLibrary function from the Win32
API.

This naturally suggests to use DLLs as a plugin mechanism. For
instance, a web server could load extensions modules stored in DLLs at
runtime. But Windows does not really make it easy to implement plugins
that way. The reason is that when you try to create a DLL from a set
of object files, the linker needs to resolve all the symbols, which
leads to the very problem solved by FlexDLL:

Windows DLL cannot refer to symbols defined in the main application or
in previously loaded DLLs.

Some usual solutions exist, but they are not very flexible. A notable
exception is the edll library (its homepage also describes the usual
solutions), which follows a rather drastic approach; indeed, edll
implements a new dynamic linker which can directly load object files
(without creating a Windows DLL).

FlexDLL is another solution to the same problem. Contrary to edll, it
relies on the native static and dynamic linkers. Also, it works both
with the Microsoft environment (MS linker, Visual Studio compilers)
and with Cygwin (GNU linker and compilers, in Cygwin or MinGW
mode). Actually, FlexDLL implements mostly the usual dlopen POSIX API,
without trying to be fully conformant though (e.g. it does not respect
the official priority ordering for symbol resolution). This should
make it easy to port applications developped for Unix.
